# Project 4 - A study of phase transition in the 2D Ising model using Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulation
Authors:
Alessio Canclini and Filip Severin von der Lippe

## Structure of repository
This folder of the repository FYS4150 contains all files used for Project 4 in FYS4150 Autumn 2022.
- figures contains both figures used in the report of this project and other relevant figures produced by the included code.
- latex Contains .tex and .pdf of the report for this project
- code contains all code used to prouduce the reults discussed in the report aswell as the figures found in the figures folder

## Code structure and how to run
The programming languages python and c++ have been used. To run the code make sure to use python 3 and c++11, and have the following packages for python which can be installed with pip by using the following commands:

```
pip3 install pyarma
pip3 install matplotlib
pip3 install seaborn
pip3 install scipy
```

Everything is built around one class ising_model with its own .cpp and .hpp files. 
All computations use the main.cpp file which includes the class to compute the results. 
The python file "plot.py" reproduces all figures and results by compiling, linking, and running the necessary c++ code. All this can be done by
```
python3 plot.py
```
It is also possible to run the individual c++ codes by using the following commands:
```
g++ main.cpp ising_model.cpp -o main -larmadillo -fopenmp -O  
./main threads T lattice_dim order save_cycles save_temp save_hist T_min T_max
```
Here we have the chosen parameters given as command line arguments:
- *int* **threads:**                  Number of threads used in parallelization. 1 equals no parallelization
- *double* **T:**               Temperature
- *int* **lattice_dim:**              Dimension of lattice 
- *bool* **order:**              true to order all initial spins with +1, false for random initial spins
- *string* **save_cycles:**       savename of .dat file generated by calculating the expectation values for 40 MCMC cycles in the logarithmicly spaced interval 10-$10^7$ when lattice_dim=2, otherwise logspace interval 10-$10^6$. Write none to not run at all 
- *string* **save_temp:**         savename of .dat file generated by calculating the expectation values for 40 lineary spaced different temperatures from **T_min** to **T_max**. Write none to not run at all 
- *string* **save_hist:**   savename of .dat file generated by calculating $\epsilon$ at every cycle up to a total of $10^6$ MCMC cycles. Write none to not run at all 
- *double* **T_min:** minimum temperature to use if save_temp is not "none". If 2.1, a lower temperature step will be used in the interval [2.235, 2.33]
- *double* **T_max:** maximum temperature to use if save_temp is not "none".

